the woke Market has crashed read the
room they knew who they were going to
piss off why would you have a corporate
goal to piss off consumers listen I
don't I don't own a car this idea that
all publicity is good publicity is not
true because budl got a lot of publicity
and they also lost about 30% of the the
value of their shares people are taking
the lyrics of Defying Gravity and really
holding space with that it's really
powerful a green skinned woman is mocked
bullied and humiliated because of her
skin color a green skinned woman there
is no such thing I did see it with my
wife it's the ninth circle of hell for
me with political hostilities pause for
Thanksgiving our Focus turns to those
for whom there is no seasonal rest bite
celebrities and Ultra woke corporate
lunatics we begin with premium car maker
Jaguar you have has been build is so
ludicrous that it seems almost purpose
made to generate a debate about it
no driving no roads no cars it looks
more like the Norwegian entry for
Eurovision song contest and a campaign
by a Luxury Motor brand the backlash has
been as amusing as frankly I would say
is Justified this parody promises the
Jaguar ad but with 100% more Jaguars
[Applause]
[Music]
and there's been plenty of that although
it has to be said that uh from an
awareness point of view view everyone in
the world now knows that Jaguar has a
new campaign out and it's been viewed
hundreds of millions of times on social
media well Jaguar's managing director
Roden Glover told the financial times
that criticism has been driven by vile
hatred and intolerance has it or is it
another example of the what I would call
The Virtue signaling death spiral that
brought us me to Gillette and Dylan
mulan's Bud Light here to discuss all
this and more from an errotic YouTube
channel pop cultural critic Gary beer uh
the uncensored regular contributor
Esther kru and a man who can always be
relied upon to defend the indefensible
when it comes to All Things woke author
is the case for cancel culture Ernest
Owens Ernest let me start with you on
this one because it's become a bit of a
laughing stop this Jaguar ad what's
interesting to me is uh and full
disclosure I used to be an ambassador of
Jaguar like 15 years ago um when they
you know literally got a nice Jag to
drive around and I felt pretty cool in
my in my nice smart sports car this is
obviously a radic IAL departure from
anything they've done before is there
and genuine question is their method to
the madness I mean they're appealing it
seems to be to a a community which I
would not normally think would rush out
and buy Jaguars are they going
to I think that to be honest the fact
that we're even talking about it means
that they've done what they want to
achieve um I think that the marketing
idea behind it was brilliant because
they knew who they were going to piss
off and I I think that to be honest that
was the goal I mean we haven't been
talking about Jaguar why is the goal to
piss off your car what why is why would
you have a corporate goal to piss off
consumers I'm
curious I mean some consumers I mean
listen I don't I don't own a car but I
found it interesting I did I definitely
did I think the fact that people are
talking about it is going to introduce
more people to the brand they're not
talking people on this call are not
going to like it I know people are not
going to like it I know you're going to
like it but I think some people thought
it was funny and creative and different
but the fact that you all even talking
about it excels the point this is
exactly what they wanted it's so iconic
class that this is what they wanted okay
Esther I mean to be fair Jaguar is a
very successful company not anymore and
so it's going to be it's going to be
very interesting to see what happens
here because we've seen with Gillette we
saw it with budlight we've seen it time
and again when corporations tend to vea
woke like this it tends to to go broke
in the short term and they and they
revert back to their previous style but
is I mean can you see a method to the
madness no absolutely not here's the
thing this idea that all publicity is
good publicity is not true because budl
got a lot of publicity and they also
lost about 30% of the the value of their
shares andette was a total disaster well
exactly and so this idea that Jaguar had
as a method to the man is they're
forgetting the people that usually buy
it Jaguar like many cars are lifestyle
Brands and they're associated with
certain people Jaguar is associated with
upper middle class British women who
don't want to look like Asylum inmates
which is basically what the people in
the adver look like they don't want to
look crazy they don't want to look like
they they have nowhere to be and they're
just bone Idol and the reality is Jaguar
this is the method to their Madness
which is just Madness they're trying to
Pivot more towards electric vehicles the
shock they're going to have is the
people that say oh this is great and
everything they either don't drive
because they live in London or they
don't just they don't they wouldn't buy
Jaguars anyway so they're alienating the
people that typically would whose
consumer spending has gone down because
I don't know if people have noticed but
the British economy is going to Port uh
and it's just it's just a crazy strategy
all over and who are they going to sell
this to outside of British well that's
the question I mean the dry the question
for me with all these things I remember
as a longtime Gillette consumer when
they launched that ridiculous commercial
attack basically on their male consumers
calling us all a bunch of wannabe rvy
Weinstein until he proved otherwise and
it cost them n billion dollar on the
bottom line before they did a screeching
U-turn back to the Burly guys carrying
little babies um making men feel good
about themselves rather than criminal um
and then we saw the thing with badl
light with that ridiculous Dylan malany
Campaign which was completely the
opposite of everything that Bud Light
would normally be selling to their
consumers and they got the kicking it
deserved is the same thing gonna happen
here do you
think absolutely the woke Market has
crashed it's been pushed off for so long
because the general populace of both of
our fine countries have been done with
this stuff for a long time anyway and
read the room look how much the world
changed just in the last couple of weeks
the perception of the world with Donald
Trump's election reelection is people
being done with this stuff I was waiting
for the punchline in this ad because
this could be the greatest troll ever if
they come back and go just kidding and
they show a guy about to Shag a girl in
a Jaguar that'd be awesome but that's
not going to happen here and they didn't
even have a car in their head and when
you're being trolled by Elon on Twitter
like do you sell cars by the guy who's
out selling them it's it's hilarious so
I I love seeing this I I mean go ahead
and crash and burn at this point if
you're going to be this dumb I mean the
the the guy Roden Glover uh from jagu
said if we play him the same way that
everybody else does we'll just get
drowned out we shouldn't turn up like an
auto brand we don't want to necessarily
leave all our customers behind but we do
need to attract a new customer to which
I would say having owned Jaguars in the
past I mean you are going to feel
alienated if you're a Jaguar driver
right now you're going to think I have
nothing in common with this this is not
aimed at me anymore they don't want
people rich people don't want to look
crazy I mean like poor people don't want
to look crazy so I mean what's going to
happen to the CEOs is probably going to
be handed as p45 in the next few months
because that's exactly what happened
with Red Bull that tried this sort of
work campaigning in 2020 they were fired
the CEO fired the entire team I mean
when you replace your marketing team
with Asylum inmates and canva like what
do you expect why would any wealthy
British woman of which they are reducing
number them you know what you know what
we we may be on the verge of true
historic greatness here where it may be
in like six months time we reconvene an
Earnest has been proven right and that
doing such a extraordinarily weird
campaign aimed at people like Ernest
turned out to be a piece who doesn't own
a car by the way turn to be a piece of
marketing genius and Ernest will have
now bought five Jaguars off the back of
it and will all his mates and you know
what you'll have the last love Ernest
possibly but what I will say is that I
just think historically we have seen
campaigns that when you look back at
Apple when you look at people who have
done radical Wild Things some stuff
don't work and some things do but I
think it's very interesting that the
group that soan Council coature are so
invested in killing this brand it's been
around for decades over one silly ass I
just want like cars are not cheap I'm
not going to I Love The I love the brand
of Jaguar I just I actually want to help
them not not kill them um I think look I
think so so we'll anyway we'll see
Ernest whether you're proven right I
wouldn't put money on it just to be just
an FYI they're not going to go away I
mean this is this is not going to be
that bad I think it's gonna be okay
let's let's see um let's turn to Wicked
wicked's the biggest movie in the world
right now uh taking nearly 150 movie
doing great at the box office shocker
what's that
shocker I said shocker you was you know
earlier made1 million over the they
spent on it that's not exactly what's
the point
no but it could have flopped what's the
point you're making BR hang hang on hang
on what's is the point you're making
erest the point I'm making is that I
find it interesting that there was this
whole during the whole election cycle
there was all this talk about oh people
are done with this woke marketing and
this type of stuff but it it outpaced
Gladiator the box office this very hyper
masculine film that that was supposed to
be the big Juggernaut but Wicked is
doing numbers people don't like musicals
anymore but all of a sudden people want
to go see work okay first of all
Gladiator is underperforming second
they've just broken even they're not
they're not they just made the money it
is is indisputably doing well I want to
play this is very odd um this is like a
mashup from the Press tour from Cynthia
arivo and Arana Grande who've been just
behaving a slightly odd manner ours is
so full of queerness and celebration and
beautiful differences and so is Earth
this week people are taking the lyrics
of Defying Gravity and really holding
space with that and feeling power in
that I didn't know that that was
happening I've seen it yeah that's
really powerful mhm yeah that's what I
wanted mhm I didn't know that was
happening every day in the Emerald City
is a pride parade oh my God yeah I mean
look at like that's actually great but
it's true even like the
chickens those SN leard with the little
cake no the dratic it's all a bit weird
there's a suggestion there a kind of
wicked cult that's being developed
here well there's always been a wicked
cult to be real with uh the play that uh
full disclosure I saw 20 years ago on a
date with my wife uh and it is the it is
patient zero for like the subversion of
expectations but this has had a fan base
for decades this was always going to do
well if they if they made it close to
the source material and it was a a film
made for women and gay men and they are
going to see it in droves and that's
fine that's that's the kind of kind of
film that should exist for me I just
don't want Marvel to be Wicked or Star
Wars to be Wicked that's that's where
the problem there this movie proves
there's a difference between men and
women they both like different things
what and and not all women will agree
but they will definitely go see it we
saw it with Barbie I would say Barbie
was more hyper political than this this
is just a a play where people break out
in song I did see it with my wife it's
the ninth circle of hell for me I hate
musicals but I went because I you know
my wife has gone to a lot of superhero
movies with me um I'm GNA I'll probably
take my daughter to here um but Esther
today hilariously the British border of
film classification has issued a trigger
warning on Wicked uh because of
potential discrimination against Green
skinned women and persecution of talking
animals The Warning issued on their
website States a green skinned woman is
mocked bullied and humiliated because of
her skin color a green skinned woman
there is no such thing as a green
skinned woman in the real world even
nnest knows there are no green skinned
women right Ernest yes no I agree thank
you I agree no I'll come back to you
Ernest I'll come back to you to get
clarification there are no green skinned
women in the world Esther why do we have
to Ure I I think I to be honest I'm I'm
such a cynic first of all I also hate
musicals I I there's not enough money
you could pay me to go and watch that
film but also I think I I'm the cynic in
me is saying this is a PR move this is
saying oh slap something ridiculous on
it so that the Daily Mail will pick it
up which it has by the way one of the
most red newspapers in the country has
picked it up I don't think anyone's
going to mistake the the Discrimination
of green skinn people one because it
doesn't exist I mean why don't they draw
parallels with I don't know yellow
skinned people people with jaundice it's
ridiculous they're doing this as a PR St
and the be offended by Earnest the
persecution of talking animals for God's
sake yeah like Dr D no I think to be
honest I think that trolling is on both
sides clearly I I clearly they they
succeeded in what they knew was going to
happen right that certain you know
Publications that clearly look for stuff
like this to get angry about were going
to react in the way they not the British
border
film their job to go people that they
don't they don't like
be a neutral organization I
think right I mean true but I think part
of it is is to start a conversation
right I bet
because handsome sum to do this I can
guarant there is some email chain
somewhere in that organization that says
we will give you a nice donation it's
it's obvious there's no such thing as
green skinn
people no but you can't take it so
literal I think it's interesting like
conservatives far right you all have
imagination about other people all the
time about what they're doing and what
they're not doing but for whatever
reasons even in fantasy and joke and
humor you all don't even be able to be
loose like let go about that ER hang
Ernest you do understand that just
because people don't sign up to your
very woke world view it doesn't make
them automatically far right I mean you
are aware of that right no one is
offended by this it's not
like you're making assumptions about my
values I'm not in this woke world I
think I'm in a very conscious world
I you mean you're more weak than us cuz
you've been so woke for so
long what you I'm saying I'm more
conscience more compassion for you think
you have a bigger conscience than the
rest of more compassion for different
people oh shut up I say compassion for
different people really it's true no you
don't yes I have compassion for
transgender people I have compassion for
people who look different from myself
hang on so you're assuming have
compassion for different folks
apparently we don't have compassion for
those people think some the things you
all s on this show proves that do you
have compassion for women compassion for
green skin people do you have compassion
for do you have compassion for women in
women's sport or
not I have compassion for anyone in any
sport right if you had compassion for
them you wouldn't want trans athletes
ruining the Integrity of women's po
let's move on um I want to move on to
something more serious no we're moving
on Ernest you've had your say um you've
called us all a bunch of
uncompassionate uh farri lunatics which
I think is probably enough for one one
segment um let me
switch gears now to a more serious topic
but an interesting one Band-Aid has been
accused of perpetuating a white savior
narrative after Ed Sheeran told his
followers he didn't approve of his
vocals being used on the 40th
anniversary re-release of du they know
it's Christmas posting to Instagram she
and shared a statement by Ghan British
musician fuse odg who accused the
campaign of dehumanizing Africans and
destroying our pride and identity in the
name of Charity and I'm gled to say that
fuse odg joins me now fuse welcome to
uncens great to have you thank you me
there a really interesting uh story of
this when I first read what Ed had said
mhm I thought hang on come on you can't
attack B you can't attack Bob gildo
bandaid the whole thing live it it was
so fantastic it did so much good 40
years ago why go after it then I read
what you'd said on which this is what Ed
based his response on and it did make me
to stop and think if I was currently
living in Africa would I want this
narrative to keep playing out given how
thriving and successful large parts of
the African continent have become and I
think that's really the point you were
making but I don't to put words in your
mouth right yeah no definitely um well
first of all I think it's very important
that you know to to recognize that the
British public are a nation of givers
and you know 1984 when the crisis
started you know uh the famine it needed
immediate attention so I understand the
sentim behind helping that crisis and in
the short term it made a lot of sense
you know there was great intentions
behind it there a a lot of efforts from
the artist s sir gof and the team there
was the intention to help something
immediately the perspective that I'm
coming from is that fast forward 40
years later right I think there's a way
to execute things because in the midst
of this act of kindness trying to solve
a short-term crisis we've created
another crisis which is the IDE identity
crisis where for me growing up in the UK
these kind of images really affected me
to the point where I disconnected with
being African I was not proud of being
African and it's because of these kind
of images that
feeds you know just it just feeds a
negative perception of the continent and
I just feel like you know there's a way
to solve a crisis without having to put
down uh the people so I'm just saying we
just need a different model to allow us
to uh uh solve crisis but still
maintaining the Dignity of the people
because for me I fall back in love with
myself cuz I went back to Ghana and I
just want that child in school to just
just be themselves and for other people
to also see them as equal and just
respect them but I feel like images like
you know what bandid you know put out it
really really destroys our Collective
pride and identity and that's all I'm
saying very you know what you really did
make me think Now esther you are also of
Gan heretic
um what's what's your response to that
oh no I totally agree I mean I was
actually in ACA growing up when the 2004
single came out and I remember me and my
relatives were just like what is this I
mean I don't think you need to have
children covered in flies or mud or take
as sort of really quite dehumanizing
pictures of people to appeal to people's
sense of Charity it's not necessary I've
never seen a charity ad in the UK where
you have like sort of British children
going up chimneys with missing hang hang
all right hang on hang on I'm going to
jump in cuz I remember watching the
original Michael Burke wasn't it the
original BBC report and it was
unbelievably powerful and there was a
genuine absolute crisis going on in
Ethiopia right with so many children
just literally dying of starvation and
he was so angered by what he saw that
that visceral rage came out through the
screen uh he was able to control it but
you could see it and feel it and Bob
gildo felt it and he felt we are going
to do something about these kids as you
said f in the short term so I think
there's probably two different issues
here right there is because on the one
level I totally agreed with what they
did at the time on another level I can
understand why four decades later in a
far more prosperous uh Africa than there
was then I can understand why you also
there are better ways of of raising
money no there is it's possible to raise
money without having to put those kind
of images out but I understand at the
time they had to put those kind of
images in order for the public it did
Shock the World shock the world and and
but I just feel like 40 years later to
still position Africa as a place of pity
it's just not uh uh uh it's not
constructive what about the response
from Bob gildo he said no abstract
Theory regardless of how sincerely held
should impede or distract from That
Hideous concrete real world reality
there are 600 million hungry people in
the world 300 million are in Africa we
wish it were other but it is not we can
help some of them that's what we'll
continue to do does he have a point Fus
I mean you know if half the world's
hungriest people still live in Africa
what is wrong with him continuing to
prick the conscience of prosperous
people outside of Africa to help yeah
just to put it into context 300 million
people there's 1.4 billion people uh in
Africa right my issue is that there's a
way that we can still help people
without having to take away their pride
and dignity there's 95.5 million people
that can't afford a proper meal in
Europe
that's 1 in N versus 1 in 10 in Africa
but somehow we're able to help and and
and you know bring this initiative to
help these people without having to
destroy their pride and identity and
also uh another issue that you know I
like to point out is that yes there was
a crisis happening and they needed you
know an immediate solution to it but it
branded the whole of the continent as a
place of of of famine and and War and
poverty and death but it just a crisis
in one country and I give I always give
the example of you Ukraine being in
crisis and all of a sudden the whole of
Europe is war stricking yeah you know so
we just have to be very careful with the
way that we execute cuz I understand the
sentiment of wanting to help because
it's great to help especially when
there's a there's a crisis we all need
to come together to help but please
let's be mindful about how we actually
execute these helps because sometimes
well in our scenario for Africa it has
crippled us over the 40 years and I
understand in the short term it helped
and you know I'm grateful that you know
it helped at the time but let's also
look at what is caused now let okay let
me bring in Ernest cuz you've been
you've been nodding away here Ernest
what do you think of
this well I think you know everything
he's saying is very valid and what's
been said I mean I've been to Ghana um
and love the country and think that you
know when I went to Ghana and what I saw
in person and my experience there was
nothing like the narratives I seen
growing up watching stuff you know on TV
and commercials and I think about you
know the fact of that impact right you
said 40 years ago we got a president um
you know elect that referred to African
countries as hole countries and
part of what he was thinking was the
types of images that we've seen growing
up of Africa being depicted in the type
of way that it is and so for me it's
like there's other ways to counter The
Narrative I think that while it can be
compelling to see people impoverished
and all these things if that is the bulk
of the majority of the narratives that
we're seeing usually of one particular
area of the world constantly even when
we're not asking for charity then you
got to mix it up and do something better
let me bring in the because you've been
waiting patiently what do you think of
this
debate uh I think it's interesting being
an expert in Africa myself never been
there but uh I would say um uh starving
children should be the priority no
matter where they are and fixing that
problem Pride I would swallow that I
understand the perception maybe I think
there's a reasonable conclusion we could
come here we could talk about the region
maybe and not you know because there
hole countries it's not exclusive
to Africa there's hole countries
around the entire world add to that yeah
you're right starving children are the
priority right but I'm thinking about my
daughter right now right I want my
daughter to step outside her house being
proud of who she is imagine your
daughter stepping out feeling like you
know her represent anything that
represents her is poor is famine is
death it's is it's it's it's just
nothing that's building her
self-confidence and as a result of this
this issue I'm having to I'm having to
affir my daughter every day because I
know when she steps out the world view
of how people see her is not so great
because of images like you know bandaid
initiatives so all I'm saying is that
there's a way to execute this I'm not
just thinking about myself yeah it's too
late for a lot of of us older ones
who've disconnected with who we are I'm
thinking about my daughter I just wanted
to be herself I just wanted to be proud
of who she is I wanted to understand
that
she she is more than what the world
tells her so I have to affirm her every
day what I'm trying to say is that we've
created an idential crisis as a result
of trying to help something in the short
term and I understand we have to
prioritize the people starving but let's
also think about the future the next
generation of leaders okay let me let me
get let me get n because you wanted to
respond to that I I do well as a father
who who's raised two boys you know I I
absolutely especially one of them being
special needs uh I understand having to
talk to your kid about being an
individual and not having to kind of
close out the world and understand that
the world is not going to cater to you
because of this special need and this is
something you have to teach your kid
individually as a father I'm not going
to tell you how to father but I
understand I'm just saying there to be
some kind of compromise compromise to
where um maybe focus on the region
wherever that region is and going this
region needs help and do show pictures
because people aren't going to know if
you don't and it's sucks to see that
nobody wants to see that nobody wants to
see Starving Children I'm so glad that
you gave an example of your son because
you've been working so hard indoors
building his self-confidence I've been
doing that a whole nation of us been
doing that with our kids but it's so
hard when initiatives like bandid come
again and it feels like it's setting us
back because it's 2024 we're supposed to
embrace each other we're supposed to
uplift each other not put each other
down there's a way we can execute this
without putting ourselves down and
that's why I've even taking upon myself
we've launched an educational app that
teaches black history so we can
highlight Africa's contribution to the
globe so my daughter can understand that
there's other representation of you
that's been powerful so you can be this
powerful we even have an affirmation
tool for her to affirm herself it's
called School of new Africa and it this
whole crisis has has has pretty much
presented a situation where we've had to
become the solution to it same way
you've been working behind doors to be
the solution to your child I've had to
bring the solution for my daugh daughter
and I feel like we just all need to work
together if you if there's an issue if
there's a crisis you need to allow the
people that you're helping to lead the
conversation so we doesn't cause another
crisis should should Ed Sheeran take
should his name be taken off the Record
as he wanted um I think he should have
asked for approval I think that's just
like common courtesy um I don't disagree
with that well I mean my argument is
more an economic one because ultimately
I think there are better ways of of
actually providing the people that need
the help a lot of these big Charities
they don't actually end up helping the
people that need be helped they get
swallowed up in administration and all
of that and I think a side effect of
these kinds of images Coming Out of
Africa although they are important you
don't see parts of Africa as tourist
destinations which actually benefit
private Enterprise that benefit people
that actually have the ability to be
able to to benefit their local
communities not rich corrupt politicians
you know what if if the if Britain
carries on down the road it's been going
we might end up being on the subject of
appeals from Africa to help their poor
friends in England
because it's that bad right we might
have do do the Brits know it's Christmas
with pictures of starving little English
kids in the called Pion because there
are lots of countries in Africa which
are absolutely killing it right now uh
and they look at us and go wow what
happened to you guys so look it's a
great debate F great to have you on on S
thank you very much for coming in send
Ed my best and good to have uh the rest
of you I want to end just by asking each
of the pan is Thanksgiving in America
Ernest what are you feeling thankful
for um I'm feeling thankful for um being
alive and being able to be as outspoken
as much as I can that I still have my
rights of free speech as long as I do
and hopefully I will in this next
Administration in 2025 so I think you'll
be fine I'm feeling optimistic about it
we'll see you know you will always have
a place on the show to defend the
indefensible you know that Esther not
American well yeah uh I'm grateful for
uh good health and prosperity uh I would
say I'm grateful for Free Speech but the
people in prison right now for Facebook
posts so I that I don't think that's
going to last very long under kiss armas
Britain um but I'm just good I'm
grateful for a healthy family and you
know the things that we take for granted
noic grateful for my higher power and
sobriety I am grateful for the shift
that's happening in America and I will
happily fight for Ernest Wright to free
speech every day even if he's wrong well
he usually is wrong but I agree with you
I would too and finally and fuse finally
for you what are you feeling thankful
for I'm I'm just thankful for my health
I think being healthy is the most
successful thing anybody can have in
life so yeah that's that's it that's the
main thing without Health Nothing Else
Matters well you say that but actually
Arsenal's return to form oh God uh is
actually for me more important because
it has a a direct effect on my health so
when we had a little wobble last month I
felt ill now we're playing out of our
skins again and I feel radiantly healthy
and buoyant and happy so never
underestimate the power of football or
soccer as nro Ernest would call it to
reinvigorate your health uh got to leave
it there Happy Thanksgiving to our
American friends um and obviously over
here we view all these things these
celebrations in America a slightly
different light if it hadn't been for
old Mad King George you would probably
have King Pier now and life could look
very different for you guys over the
pond but there we are you can't have
everything uh thank you very much to my
panel we're getting closer to it though
what's that King Pier you can call me
King we're getting closer to it over
here you you can call me King Pi Hest if
you want no problem I'll call you Prince
Earnest uh right thank you all very much
cheers